The queries in real life are little more
complex than what we have seen before.
So let's consider a more complex query.
Let’s find bars where the price
of Miller is the same as or
less than what the great American bar
called TGAB here charges for Bud.
You may say, but we do not really
know what TGAB charges for Bud.
That's correct, so
we can break up the query into two parts.
First, we will find this unknown price,
and then we'll use that price
to find the bars that would sell Miller
for the same price or better price.
Now this is a classic situation where
the result from the first part of
the query should be fed as
a parameter to the second query.
Now this situation is called a subquery.
We write this in SQL as
shown in the slide here.
What makes this query different is that
the part where price is less than equal
to, instead of specifying
a constant like $8,
we actually place another query which
computes the price of a Bud at TGAB.
The shaded part is called the inner query,
or the subquery.
In this case, both the outer query and
the inner query use the same relation,
which is Sells.
Now in terms of evaluation,
the inner query is evaluated first,
and the outer query uses its output.
Now while it may not be
obvious at this time,
notice that the inner query is
independent of the outer query.
In other words,
even if we did not have the outer query,
we can still evaluate the inner query.
We say in this case that
the subquery is uncorrelated.
Let's look at another
example of a subquery.
In this example,
we want to find the name and
manufacturer of each beer
that Fred didn't like.
So how do we know what Fred didn't like?
We do however know that the set of
beers that Fred likes because they
are listed in the Likes relation.
So we need to subtract this set from the
total set of beers that the company has
recorded.
This subtraction of sets can
be performed in several ways.
One of them is to use
the NOT IN construct.
So the query class's job is to take
every name from the Beers table and
output it only if it does not appear
in the set produced by the inner query.
Similar to the previous query,
the subquery here is also uncorrelated.
Now this is a more sophisticated query.
The intention is to find
beers that are more expensive
than the average price of beer.
But since beers have different
prices in different bars,
we have to find the average for every bar.
Therefore the idea is to find
the average price of beer for
every bar and then compare the price of
each beer with respect to this average.
Now look at the query and the table.
Let's assume we are processing
the first table.
The beer is Bud, and the price is $5.
Now we need to know if $5 is greater than
the average price of beer sold at HGAT.
To do this,
we need to compute the inner query, okay?
So now let's look at the fourth row.
The price of Guinness needs to be
compared to that average again for HGAT.
In fact for
every table processed by the outer query,
one needs to compute the inner query for
that bar.
This makes the inner subquery
correlated with the outer query.
Now a smart query processor will store
the average once it's computed and
then reuse the stored value instead
of computing over and over again.
What's an aggregate query?
Let's use a simple example of
finding the average price of Bud.
This is like a simple select project
query with the additional aspect
that it takes a list of price values
of Bud from different bars and
then computes an average.
In the example shown,
the average of the five prices is 4.2.
In other words the average function,
the AVG function, takes a list of
values and produces a single value.
Now there are many functions
that have this behavior.
The SUM function takes
a list of values and
adds them up to produce a single value.
The COUNT function takes
a list of list of values and
counts the number of items
in that list and so on.
These are called aggregate functions.
Now if we wanted to count only the price
values that are different, that is 3,
4, and 5 just once, we can write
the SELECT clause a little differently.
We would say that the average
is over distinct values
of price which in this
case will result in 4.
You should recognize that most analytical
operations need to use statistical
functions which are aggregates.
So another important
analytical requirement
is computing the statistical
aggregate by groups.
For example, we often compute the average
salaries of employees per department.
Now back to our example here,
we want to find the average price paid for
Bud per drinker, where we know
that a drinker visits many bars.
So the grouping variable here is drinker.
So we have three attributes at play,
price which we need to aggregate,
drinker which we need to group by,
and bar which is a join attribute.
The fourth attribute, namely beer,
is used for selection and
does not participate in grouping.
So after the selection we will
get an intermediate relation
containing drinker, bar, and price.
With this, the GROUP BY operation
will create one result row for
each drinker and place the average
price over all such rows.
Now how does GROUP BY and
aggregate computation work
when the data is partitioned?
Let's take the same query.
We are looking for the average
price of Bud grouped by drinker.
But this time the result of the selection
are in two different machines.
Imagine that this time they are range
partitioned by row numbers,
which we have not shown
to maintain clarity.
Now with the GROUP BY operation the data
will get repartitioned by the grouping
attribute, that's drinker.
And then the aggregate
function is computed locally.
To accomplish this repartitioning task,
each machine groups its own data locally,
determines which portions of data should
be transmitted to a different machine,
and accordingly ships it to that machine.
Now there are several variants
of this general scheme
which are even more efficient.
Now if this reminds you of the map
operation you saw in your previous course,
you are exactly right.
This fundamental process of grouping,
partitioning, and redistribution of data
is inherent in data-parallel computing and
implemented inside database systems.